# The_dataset_of_large_case_studies_on_mutants_similarity_with_bugs

This repository provides access to the dataset associated with our accepted papers on fault seeding and evaluation of mutation testing techniques. The dataset is designed to support empirical studies, offering insights into the syntactic and semantic aspects of artificially seeded faults a.k.a. mutants, generated by mutation testing tools ([PIT](https://pitest.org), [μBERT](https://github.com/rdegiovanni/mbert), [iBIR](https://github.com/serval-uni-lu/IBIR), [DeepMutation](https://github.com/micheletufano/DeepMutation)) and bugs ([Defects4J](https://github.com/rjust/defects4j)).

## Papers

- [Syntactic Vs. Semantic similarity of Artificial and Real Faults in Mutation Testing Studies](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10136793)
- [On Comparing Mutation Testing Tools through Learning-based Mutant Selection](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10173980)

## Deep Learning Approach

The source code for the deep learning approach, [Cerebro](https://www.computer.org/csdl/journal/ts/2023/01/09677967/1A4SyVTjzhu), employed for mutant selection is available [here](https://github.com/garghub/Cerebro).

## Simulation

The source code to perform simulation and to help identify the semantic and syntactic correlation between bugs and mutants is available in [Simutate](https://github.com/garghub/simutate) repository.

## Citation

To cite our papers or the dataset, please use the BibTeX entries available in [cite.bib](cite.bib).

## Structure of the Dataset

**Important Note:** Due to GitHub's restriction on file sizes, the dataset files are zipped to a maximum of 100 MB files each.

The dataset is organized as follows:

- The source code of all the 595 Defects4J bugs considered in our study is available in [projects_source_code_buggy](projects_source_code_buggy) directory.
- The source code of fixes to all the bugs is available in [projects_source_code_fixed](projects_source_code_fixed) directory. These fixes were considered for mutation purposes.
- The details of fixes to all the bugs with tests are available in [fixes_for_all_bugs_with_tests](fixes_for_all_bugs_with_tests) directory.
- The statements modified in the bug-fixes are available in [changed_lines_to_fix_bugs](changed_lines_to_fix_bugs) directory.
- The details on the tests that failed for Defects4J bugs are in [groundtruth_bugs_failing_tests](groundtruth_bugs_failing_tests) directory.
- The mutants generated by the mutation testing tools μBERT, iBIR, and DeepMutation are available in [mutants_generated_via_CodeBERT](mutants_generated_via_CodeBERT), [mutants_generated_via_iBIR](mutants_generated_via_iBIR), and [mutants_generated_via_DeepMutation](mutants_generated_via_DeepMutation) directories, respectively.
- The details on the operators employed by the mutation testing tools are available in [mutation_operators_employed_by_mutation_testing_tools](mutation_operators_employed_by_mutation_testing_tools) directory.
- The details of all the tests failed by the mutants generated via μBERT, and DeepMutation are available in [failed_tests_by_CodeBERT_mutants](failed_tests_by_CodeBERT_mutants) and [failed_tests_by_DeepMutation_mutants](failed_tests_by_DeepMutation_mutants) directories, respectively.
- The details and scores of semantic comparison between the Defects4J bugs and the mutants generated by the mutation testing tools are available in [semantic_similarity_between_bugs_and_CodeBERT_mutants](semantic_similarity_between_bugs_and_CodeBERT_mutants), [semantic_similarity_between_bugs_and_DeepMutation_mutants](semantic_similarity_between_bugs_and_DeepMutation_mutants), and [semantic_similarity_between_bugs_and_iBIR_mutants](semantic_similarity_between_bugs_and_iBIR_mutants) directories, respectively.
- The details and scores of syntactic comparison between the Defects4J bugs and the mutants generated by the mutation testing tools are available in [syntactic_similarity_between_bugs_and_CodeBERT_mutants](syntactic_similarity_between_bugs_and_CodeBERT_mutants), [syntactic_similarity_between_bugs_and_DeepMutation_mutants](syntactic_similarity_between_bugs_and_DeepMutation_mutants), and [syntactic_similarity_between_bugs_and_iBIR_mutants](syntactic_similarity_between_bugs_and_iBIR_mutants) directories, respectively.
- Out of all the mutants generated by the mutation testing tools, the details of the mutants predicted as subsuming (and non-subsuming) by the deep learning based mutant selection approach Cerebro, based on its training n-fold cross evaluation, are available in [Cerebro_predicted_mutants](Cerebro_predicted_mutants) directory.

Please feel free to explore and utilize the dataset for your research and testing evaluations. If you have any questions or need further clarification, please feel free to reach out. Thank you for your interest and collaboration.
